Now, let us look at an example, recursive function for finding some off first and natural number.
So, first of all, explaining what does it mean by someone of an actual number?
Then I will be wiser because the function then we will write a recursive procedure that is function
using C or C++ language.
Let us understand what is what does it mean by some of the astonishing numbers?
So if I take some national numbers like one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, simple, they
want to take up to seven, then I want the sum of all these.
Sum of all these.
Submission of forest and natural no.
So how many natural no.
Fuster seven.
So for seven months, one, two, seven.
See, if I say forest and the natural numbers, then it this one plus two plus three plus four plus
goes on to last Thomas and and can be anything like in this previous example it was seven.
It can be anything.
Now for this submission let us write a recursive definition.
So for recursive definition I will say some of the tomes as one plus two plus three plus four plus goes
on to now before end the time there will be any minus one then.
And so having to read one more second last.
I'm shooting it now.
If I take the submission down here this is nothing but.
Some of tendencies, some of this is Emma minus one dance and dance first, one, two, and then and
minus 10 will be from one book at minus one, then one, two and minus one will be from here to here.
That is till this point.
Till this point.
Then what more is remaining plus.
And then if I am good at it, it gives me up too.
And so this is a recursive definition.
Now this I can write it like this.
Some off and doms can be defined as some off the minus one plus.
And if and as the greater than zero if any is equal to zero then it's not a natural.
No national.
What starts from one on word so and is zero.
So let us say answer this.
You see, remember whenever you define any recurrence relation or recursive function, then you must
have two types of statements.
One is for the large value often.
What is the formula then for the small value of and what is the answer.
So usually for small value we give a direct answer.
So if anything goes to zero, there is no formula that is there.
So based on the same thing, I can write a recursive function in C or C++.
Let us see in sum, which takes integer parameter N and if and is equal to zero rigdon zero otherwise
ripton.
Some off and minus one plus and so here what I want to explain to you here is if you have a recursive
definition of any problem, then that you can convert into a recursive function in any programming language
which supports recursion.
So in C C++, you have recursion so you can directly convert this fancy some off and some of.
And if it is equal to zero, return zero, if anything close to zero, return zero.
Otherwise if friend is better than zero than rate on some off and minus one percent.
So some off and minus one percent.
So that's it.
That is a recursive function for finding some of those definition.
No.
Now, finally, I have one more thing to show you that for finding the sum of a national number, there
is a formula that and in the end plus one by two.
So this is the formula.
So it means I don't have to write a function for that one function will consume time and it's a recursive
function and it will take time for making number of calls and stuff that I can simply use a formula
and write a program.
So usually we write just a formula whenever we have to find out some of a national number instead of
writing a function.
But for experiencing or learning recursive functions, I have taken this example even the same function.
We can write it using iteration that is using loop recursion will be costly because it uses stack internally.
So I will write on two more versions of the same function.
Instead of recursion, I will use loop and also I will directly use the formula and show you.
So I will remove this definition, then I will.
I don't put more functions here, I have a function for some which is directly using the formula if
you pass the value and then it will take the formula using the formula revolvers and in to end this
one by 200.
So the simplest function, and it will take very less time or just just constant time because it has
to evaluate the simple expression.
So I can say that the time taken by this function will be constant.
Few number of operations like one operation to operation and three operations, so total performing,
three operation, that is constant.
So this is the fastest method.
This is using formula.
Now, here I have a function for finding the sum of just a natural number using loop.
Now, this function, it takes the value of an and it will start from one to end.
So I will start the values from one, two and eventually zero.
So this I value from one to end will be keepon added to that as.
So first one is that the next time I becomes to and booza then 300 then for up to when all numbers are
added and this is done.
So this is using a loop.
I have it on the function if I find the time complexity of dysfunction.
So one of the major important statement is this one, and this statement is repeating four and times
as I is taking the values from one point.
So this will be repeated for enflames.
This is statement one time only and this is statement one time.
And if I can see the for loop mostly deserted.
And this one time.
So the main statement is this one.
So this is executing for End-Time.
So I should say that the time taken by this algorithms or any time taken this out of.
And I have found all the frequency of execution of each statement.
And does the mean statement is this one with the addition of Sadun and that's going to execute for End-Time.
So our focus is on that statement of Antine.
And how much memory it takes, just three variables, that is, I guess, and that is part of barometer,
only three variables Hodor.
But what about recursive function, recursive function internally, use stack, whatever the value of
the pass to that, it will make those many calls and it will create those many activation records.
So it's having just one variable NP so that any variable will be created many times, as many times,
depending on the value that we are passing, takes more space, but the time will be outdraw and only.
So let me trace this function and show you for the value five.
If I call this function some form, I do five, then what it will do if it was five, five is not zero
then it will call some of and minus one plus and so it will call itself for some of the four and the
value of and is what five that is added.
So it's making one more call that in this call again the same thing, it is not zero.
So it will make a call for some of three and then also add four, then it will make a call for some
of two and also the three, then some off one and also add.
To then sum of zero and also add one.
Now, finally, someone zero as it is zero, return zero.
So this is zero zero zero plus one as one.
And this is written here.
So this is one plus two.
That is three.
So three written here.
So this is three plus three.
That is six.
Six is written here.
So six plus four is ten then is written here.
So 10 plus five is 15.
15 is written here.
So there is in the 15.
So while returning, the addition is done and you can see that how many calls it has made for five.
It has made total six calls.
So the size of the stack is six and the variable is created for six time.
So memory is more.
But how much time it is taking?
There are total six calls for value of five.
There are six calls for value and there will be endless phone calls.
So it is four of them.
So the time taken by this function is out of hand.
But space is also six time for the value of five.
So the space is also and plus one.
So space is also in plus one here.
This is strain, so their regulation is costly, but it was easy for converting mathematical definition
that is recursive definition into a function.
That's how recursions are easy to write compared to loops for loop.
We have to devise from logic, work on the problem, understand the problem, devise some logic, then
it may work faster compared to recursion that takes lesser space compared to recursion.
So mostly in a lot of applications.
In our program we write loops only instead of using recursions.
But actually the problems are solved using recursions in mathematics.
So I have taken a very simple example and I have shown you how we can define the recursive function
for finding some of the numbers in the coming videos will see more examples on.